RPA - Why now? Now that we have a little more understanding of what RPA is and what it is capable of,
let us take a step back and look at why you should learn RPA right now!
A wave of automation anxiety has hit us.
Just try typing "Will robots" into Google, and an algorithm offers to complete the sentence with differing
degrees of disquiet.
"Will robots take over the world?"
"Will robots replace humans?"
"Will robots rule the world?"
Or will robots simply "take my job"?
Well, they might do.
Job-grabbing robots are no longer science fiction.
And as one of many examples, JPMorgan built a software for interpreting commercial loan agreements
that consumed 360.000 hours of work each year, previously performed by lawyers
and loan officers.
The software reviews documents in seconds, is less error prone, and it never asks for a break as opposed
to its human colleagues.
Recently, MIT Technology Review summarized the findings from several published reports by a range of
companies, research institutions and experts and presented them in a chart. Looking at it, I would
say that the main finding is that no one agrees.
Predictions range from optimistic to devastating, differing by tens of millions of jobs, even when
comparing similar time frames. Although these predictions are made by dozens of global experts in economics
and technology,
no one seems to be on the same page.
One conclusion from this could be that we have no idea how many jobs will actually be lost to the march
of technological progress, while another could be that change is coming.
All reports and experts agree on this front.
It's only time frames and the scale of impact of automation, on unemployment
that's up for debate.
Please also note that when I refer to robots and automation, we are talking about both industrial robots
and software robots. An "industrial robot" is a robot system used for manufacturing and are usually
seen in factories.
Typical applications include painting, assembly, welding, packaging and labelling, palletizing,
product inspection and testing.
While "software robots" are not physical and can loosely be defined as any type of software that incorporates
AI and or automates formerly manual processes.
Examples are expert systems, machine learning algorithms, virtual voice assistants, chatbots
and our very own RPA technology.
Anyway, the point being - learning about software robots will position you better for the future of work.
Machines replacing humans in the workplace has been a perpetual concern since the industrial revolution
and an increasing topic of discussion with the rise of automation.
Although new technologies eliminate some occupations; in many areas, they improve the quality of work
that humans do by allowing them to focus on more strategic, value creating and personally rewarding tasks.
I personally believe that instead of automation taking our jobs, the face of automation may look more
like the restructuring of jobs rather than the replacement.
However, no one will know for sure exactly how automation will affect jobs, skills and wages.
And to use a reference from Game of Thrones, "Winter is Coming".
Whether we want it or not;
It is better to be safe than to be sorry.
So be prepared for an automated future.
Then what are the challenges that today's organizations face?
Well, overall, we can see heightened expectations from different stakeholders.
Business owners expect improved efficiency and utilization of resources.
As always, I would say.
So how can we cut costs, increase income and profits and still provide the same or even greater value
to our customers?
Customers on their side demand 24/7 service availability, immediate response times and a high degree
of personalization. How can we satisfy these needs?
Governmental agencies require greater levels of transparency, traceability and compliance. And employees
want tasks that are intellectually stimulating, more challenging, more strategic, more value creating
and personally rewarding.
How do we meet the heightened expectations from all these stakeholders?
The solution is a future where humans and machines work hand in hand.
So please welcome "The Digital Workforce".
"The Digital Workforce" consists of a wide range of technologies that is integrated with each other and
with the human workforce to deliver value across the enterprise. To better understand how these technologies
can benefit the organization, it helps to "humanize" digital employees and categorize them by skill set.
I've come up with four different categories that I want to share with you.
The first is "The Communicator".
"The Communicator" is the social one and communicates with humans by text-to-speech, speech-to-text or
speech-to-speech dialogue.
"The Communicator" is represented by technology like chatbots and digital voice assistants such as Google's
Assistant, Microsoft's Cortana, Apple's Siri or Amazon's Alexa.
Then we have "The Supporter".
"The Supporter" is extremely good at analyzing big data and visually express it.
"The Supporter" is represented by artificial intelligence and more traditional mathematical predictive analysis.
...
Then we have "The Digital Reader" who will be responsible for capturing and uploading data for use across
the enterprise.
Today, for example, a warehouse employee must write down and manually enter new shipments of parts
and equipment that arrive.
"The Digital Reader" will capture images of packaging slips and automagically update the inventory.
"The Digital Reader" is represented through cognitive automation technologies, smart OCR and machine learning.
And finally, we have what I like to call "The Worker".
That's the one that get things done.
"The Worker" performs rule-based, repetitive tasks at a high pace and with high precision.
This can be a tasks such as entering and processing data, comparing data sets, sending automatic emails,
create reports, do reconciliations and more.
And yes, you are right.
"The Worker" is represented by robotic process automation technology.
Now you hopefully understand from a high-level perspective why RPA is relevant. If we look more
in detail at RPA, there are especially two reasons RPA is so relevant when it comes to automating
modern office tasks.
These are that 1) Employees today use a lot more different tools compared to the past.
It is not feasible to automate all those tools and their interactions with simple macros.
If you think about it, there is an app for everything today; hosted in the cloud, integrated via
APIs. CRM, ERP, productivity app and other apps run today's enterprises.
So why do we need to build our specialized robots then?
Well, the problem is business processes.
Business processes need input from different tools and we have been using an increasing number of tools
every year.
In 1990, Microsoft Office had three products: Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel and Microsoft PowerPoint.
Today, Microsoft 365 has nine products:
Microsoft Outlook, OneDrive, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, OneNote, SharePoint, Teams and Yammer.
With more tools comes the need for integration.
Though every major tool has an API, the developer company may not provide open access to the API.
Without API access, users are forced to export complex CSVs and resort to other complex but boring data
janitor work.
But who can blame the vendors?
Every vendor wants to have a sticky product.
Sadly, making integration and data migration difficult increases switching costs and creates frustrated,
but loyal customers.
Sometimes vendors aren't the only ones to blame.
Most large companies still use some systems built with early 2000s technology - and I mean some companies
with
even 1990s technology. And legacy systems are not supposed to be providing integration to modern tools.
RPA provides the solution to these problems,
and software robots step up to bridge to gaps between systems.
The other reason is that 2) Outsourcing no longer creates benefits, as most benefits of outsourcing have
been reaped. In the past,
the way most companies handle the overhead required to carry out simple, repetitive, high volume and
manual tasks was simply to outsource them.
They received the same results without remotely the same costs.
Well, that was once a massive advantage.
It's fading and outsourcing is simply not the same game changer it once was.
My claim is still and always that learning RPA will make you ready for the future of work.
With so much interest in a topic
consulting companies have already put together their own RPA offerings.
Learning RPA and understanding the impact of automation and the digital-human combination of your
workplace will be very important.
This is true whether you want to pursue a career as an RPA Project Manager or RPA Developer.
Lastly, I would like to add that despite the economic pressures caused by the covid-19 pandemic, the
RPA market still grew 20% in the first year of the crisis, according to Gartner, which is
one of the world's leading research and advisory companies.
This, again, shows that RPA technology is highly relevant and that it will deliver long term benefits
in the years ahead.